---
title: Basic info
description: Basic information about how Engrafia works.
tags: docs, engrafia, nextjs
position: 1
---

# Basic info

Engrafia uses a file system to organize,, and create categories, and menus, so, you don't need to worry about routes, menus, or other things, every file becomes a new menu entry, and every folder becomes a category menu. If you want to organize your menu, you can add `position` property in metadata, this metadata will organize the order of menu items.

Another important thing, is that Engrafia uses `md`, and `mdx` files to create contents, and javascript files to create custom pages, like `404`, `home`.

## Content folder

All contents should be in `pages` folder, following the versioning rules, if it's the case.

```mdx
engrafia-app

- pages
  - 0.0.0
    - page-examples
  - 0.0.1
    - page-examples
```

## app.js

`_app.js` is the entry file of an Engrafia application, there are not many configurations to do in this file unless you want to use your theme, and customize the global style.

## document.js

As `_app.js`, `_document.js` does not have much customization, unless you need to customize styles.

> Do not put meta tags, or link styles here, those things should be in `theme.config.js`.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import Document, { Html, Head, Main, NextScript } from 'next/document';
import { CssBaseline } from '@nextui-org/react';
import { GlobalStyles } from 'engrafia';

export default class CustomDocument extends Document {
  static async getInitialProps(ctx) {
    const initialProps = await Document.getInitialProps(ctx);
    return {
      ...initialProps,
      styles: React.Children.toArray([initialProps.styles]),
    };
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <Html>
        <Head>
          {CssBaseline.flush()}
          {GlobalStyles()}
          <link href="https://css.gg/link.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        </Head>
        <body>
          <Main />
          <NextScript />
        </body>
      </Html>
    );
  }
}
```

## Translations

Engrafia supports Next i18n out of the box, so, you don't have to learn a new way to do that.

To create documentation with internationalization, you need to create a file for every language that you want to use on it, `public/locales/en.json`.

```json
{
  "description": "This is a description",
  "link.docs": "Documentation",
  "link.github": "Github",
  "edit.content": "Edit this content",
  "table.of.content": "Page content",
  "search.placeholder": "Search..."
}
```

## theme.config.js

This file is the main file configuration, this file should not be deleted, it's responsible for config menus, basic information about the website, metadata, tags, and more.

## sidebar.json

Sidebar menu configuration is auto-generated by the file system, which means you don't need to create a configuration for that, just create folders, and `md`, and `mdx` files, and the file system will generate a file to represent the sidebar configuration.
